# Degrees of Separation in an Online Social Network
(Conor Buckley, Nathan Groom, Xingjia Wu)

Our project attempts to use ergms and the Markov Chain Monte Carlo method to model the “small world phenomenon” – specifically trying to answer the question of how many degrees of separation two people in an online social network may have between them. We chose this topic because we, along with most people, have experienced this phenomenon offline in the “real world”; coming across someone with whom we share a mutual friend or friends. Intuitively such an event would seem to be rare and yet it happens quite often, even in a big city. Our project takes the next logical step and extrapolates to the world of online social media, specifically Facebook, where two users being “friends” is easily quantifiable, and online data is readily available. Furthermore, we attempt to analyze descriptive factors or features of each user (or node) to determine which attributes more strongly influence how close two randomly chosen users are in the online network (the “average shortest path”). Our work is done in the R language and makes strong use of both the ‘igraph’ and ‘statnet’ libraries, and in particular the ‘ergm’ package within the statnet library. After building a model to fit to our Facebook data and refining using Goodness of Fit tests, we simulated 50 similar networks and concluded that there is slightly less than 2 degrees of separation (1.95) in the online social network. Future work on larger dataset with more features is needed to improve our model for simulation.